Create page in Integrate with Amplify Central section “query-the-traceability-apis-with-lexus” (#66)
Axway/amplify-central: content/en/docs/integrate_with_central/query-the-traceability-apis-with-lexus.md

---
title: Query the Traceability APIs with Lexus
description: Learn how you can query data about API specifics and aggregate
  performance using the Amplify Central Traceability APIs.
---
## Core concepts

Lexus is a small [JSON](http://www.json.org/) language used for querying multiple types of data storage systems. With Lexus you can query for a set of specific documents using filters that match them, or for counts of the documents that match. You can also ask for basic histograms or group by field values in the documents. Other aggregations, such as sums and averages, are also possible. Lexus is used as the query language against the analytics store inside the Amplify platform and these Lexus-based queries can be passed to APIs. This cookbook covers some specific examples of Lexus queries that will help you to form more complex examples.

The core of the Lexus language and how to use it are described [in this document](https://github.com/appcelerator/lexus/blob/c8b4049ed91c19f722d55e4fbb3aa0ed61b65add/docs/getting-started.md).

> ## API authorization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisite - API authorization
```

1. ***Install the Axway CLI***: [https://docs.axway.com/bundle/axwaycli-open-docs/page/docs/quick\_start/index.html](https://docs.axway.com/bundle/axwaycli-open-docs/page/docs/quick_start/index.html)
2. ***Authorize the CLI***: [https://docs.axway.com/bundle/axwaycli-open-docs/page/docs/authentication/index.html](https://docs.axway.com/bundle/axwaycli-open-docs/page/docs/authentication/index.html)

{{< alert title="Note" color="primary" >}}If you are querying against Amplify Central APIs, ensure your account is assigned the **Central Admin** role in the Amplify platform dashboard.{{< /alert >}}

> ## Amplify Central

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Amplify Central use case
```

> One common use case is to call the various APIs inside Amplify Central to retrieve summaries of transactions, events, or an individual transaction or event. See [https://docs.axway.com/category/api](https://docs.axway.com/category/api) > Amplify Platform > Traceability Connector API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One common use case is to call the various APIs inside Amplify Central to retrieve summaries of transactions, events, or an individual transaction or event. See [https://docs.axway.com/category/api](https://docs.axway.com/category/api) > Amplify Platform > Traceability Connector API.

You can use whichever of the following methods you feel the most comfortable with to call the APIs. 
```

### Postman Collection

For quicker execution, you may prefer to use the postman collection containing some of the examples shown below in the sample queries: [https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/2125605/TWDanGAu](https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/2125605/TWDanGAu).

{{< alert title="Note" color="primary" >}}The Postman Collection requires the **_X-Axway-Tenant-Id_** and _**Authorization**_ headers to be set to POST to the backend service.{{< /alert >}}

### cURL

> Alternatively, you can use cURL. An example of calling via cURL is shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of calling APIs via cURL is shown below.
```

1. Paste the following document into a file: `amplify\_api.sh`
2. Change the file to be executable: `chmod a+x amplify.sh`
3. Call the file: `./amplify\_api.sh`

{{< alert title="Note" color="primary" >}}In this script, environment variables are assumed to have been set using the information specified under [API Authorization](#api-authorization):{{< /alert >}}

```sh
export $CLIENT_ID=<clientId>
export $SECRET_FILE=<secretFile>
```

> You may use whatever mechanism you feel most comfortable with to call the APIs. This script shows an example of exercising the API calls directly from the command line:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Command line

This script shows an example of exercising the API calls directly from the command line:
```

# params
CENTRAL_URL="https://apicentral.axway.com"
# This could be simplified on systems that support date %N
DATE=$(python -c "import time; print(int(time.time()*1000))")
 
# Set these parameters externally, or change to using a different authentication style if you like
authResult=$(axway auth login --client-id $CLIENT_ID  --secret-file $SECRET_FILE --json)
token=$(echo $authResult | jq -r '.auth.tokens.access_token')
tenantId=$(echo $authResult | jq -r '.org.org_id')
 
# note the double-escape around $DATE given that the payload is encapsulated in single-quotes
curl --location --request POST "${CENTRAL_URL}/api/traceability/v1/traceability/search" \
--header "X-Axway-Tenant-Id: ${tenantId}" \
--header "Authorization: Bearer ${token}" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data-raw '
{
    "filters": {
        "$range": {
            "@event_time": {
                "lt": '${DATE}'
            }
        }
    },
    "invoke": {
        "field": "@event_time",
        "params": {
            "limit": 100,
            "offset": 0,
            "sort": {
                "@event_time": -1
            }
        },
        "method": "find"
    },
    "version": "0.2"
}'
```

> ## Transaction events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Transaction event examples
```

> Use the following data to query details out of the APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Last 100 events, both summaries and events:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Last 100 events, both summaries and events
```

```js
// Replace "lt" with the current time in ms
// List is last 100 items, sorted in descending order by event_time
{
    "filters": {
        "$range": {
            "@event_time": {
                "lt": <current time>
            }
        }
    },
    "invoke": {
        "field": "@event_time",
        "params": {
            "limit": 100,
            "offset": 0,
            "sort": {
                "@event_time": -1
            }
        },
        "method": "find"
    },
    "version": "0.2"
}
```

> Otherwise, you can show just transactionSummary or transactionEvent events:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Show only transactionSummary or transactionEvent events
```

```js
// This extends the previous example to filter on the type of "transactionSummary"
{
    "filters": {
        "$match": {
            "type": [
                "transactionSummary"
            ]
        },
        "$range": {
            "@event_time": {
                "lt": <current time>
             }
        }
    },
    "invoke": {
        "field": "@event_time",
        "params": {
            "limit": 100,
            "offset": 0,
            "sort": {
                "@event_time": -1
            }
        },
        "method": "find"
    },
    "version": "0.2"
}
```

> A transaction summary event looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transaction summary event
```

      "tenant":<tenant>,
      "orgId":"<orgId>",
      "flow":"api-central-v8"
   },
   "@knowledge_time":"2021-09-16T08:33:37.230Z",
   "@event_time":"2021-09-16T08:33:35.730Z",
   "body":{
      "environmentId":"<environmentId>",
      "environmentName":"Axway Cloud",
      "tenantId":"<tenantId>",
      "apicDeployment":"prod",
      "transactionSummary":{
         "duration":61,
         "proxy":{
            "name":"<name>",
            "id":"<uuid>",
            "revision":1
         },
         "runtime":{
            "name":"Prod Runtime",
            "id":"<guid>"
         },
         "statusDetail":200,
         "entryPoint":{
            "path":"/v6/pet/123",
            "method":"GET",
            "host":"<random>.apicentral.axwayamplify.com",
            "type":"http"
         },
         "status":"Success"
      },
      "type":"transactionSummary",
      "version":"1.0",
      "transactionId":"<guid>",
      "timestamp":1631781215730
   },
   "@sorted_event_id":"<random>,
   "@index_time":"2021-09-16T08:33:37.232523Z",
   "@org_guid":"<guid>",
   "@fulltext":"<text of event>",
   "@tenant_id":58,
   "@clearance":"log",
   "@source_id":1
}
```

> A transaction event looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Transaction event
```
